<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-16" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h3>
			<p>Before <time datetime="1893-10">October, 1893</time>, I had studied various subjects by myself in a more or less desultory manner. I read the histories of Greece, Rome and the United States. I had a French grammar in raised print, and as I already knew some French, I often amused myself by composing in my head short exercises, using the new words as I came across them, and ignoring rules and other technicalities as much as possible. I even tried, without aid, to master the French pronunciation, as I found all the letters and sounds described in the book. Of course this was tasking slender powers for great ends; but it gave me something to do on a rainy day, and I acquired a sufficient knowledge of French to read with pleasure La Fontaine’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Fables</i>, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="fr">Le Médecin Malgré Lui</i> and passages from <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="fr">Athalie</i>.</p>
			<p>I also gave considerable time to the improvement of my speech. I read aloud to Miss Sullivan and recited passages from my favourite poets, which I had committed to memory; she corrected my pronunciation and helped me to phrase and inflect. It was not, however, until <time datetime="1893-10">October, 1893</time>, after I had recovered from the fatigue and excitement of my visit to the World’s Fair, that I began to have lessons in special subjects at fixed hours.</p>
			<p>Miss Sullivan and I were at that time in Hulton, Pennsylvania, visiting the family of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> William Wade. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Irons, a neighbour of theirs, was a good Latin scholar; it was arranged that I should study under him. I remember him as a man of rare, sweet nature and of wide experience. He taught me Latin grammar principally; but he often helped me in arithmetic, which I found as troublesome as it was uninteresting. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Irons also read with me Tennyson’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">In Memoriam</i>. I had read many books before, but never from a critical point of view. I learned for the first time to know an author, to recognize his style as I recognize the clasp of a friend’s hand.</p>
			<p>At first I was rather unwilling to study Latin grammar. It seemed absurd to waste time analyzing, every word I came across⁠—noun, genitive, singular, feminine⁠—when its meaning was quite plain. I thought I might just as well describe my pet in order to know it⁠—order, vertebrate; division, quadruped; class, mammalia; genus, felinus; species, cat; individual, Tabby. But as I got deeper into the subject, I became more interested, and the beauty of the language delighted me. I often amused myself by reading Latin passages, picking up words I understood and trying to make sense. I have never ceased to enjoy this pastime.</p>
			<p>There is nothing more beautiful, I think, than the evanescent fleeting images and sentiments presented by a language one is just becoming familiar with⁠—ideas that flit across the mental sky, shaped and tinted by capricious fancy. Miss Sullivan sat beside me at my lessons, spelling into my hand whatever <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Irons said, and looking up new words for me. I was just beginning to read Caesar’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Gallic War</i> when I went to my home in Alabama.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
