<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>“With great admiration of thy noble work in releasing from bondage the mind of thy dear pupil, I am truly thy friend. <span epub:type="z3998:signature">John <abbr class="name">G.</abbr> Whittier</span>.” <a href="chapter-1-23.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Atlantic Monthly</i>, <time datetime="1890-05">May, 1890</time>. <a href="letters.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Miss Fuller gave Helen Keller her first lesson in articulation. See Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">IV</span>, Speech. <a href="letters.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Ragnhild Kaata. <a href="letters.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Phillips Brooks died <time datetime="1893-01-23">January 23, 1893</time>. <a href="letters.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Read by <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hale at the celebration of the centenary of <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Samuel Gridley Howe, at Tremont Temple, Boston, <time datetime="1901-11-11"><abbr>Nov.</abbr> 11, 1901</time>. <a href="letters.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Most of this journal was lost. Fortunately, however, Helen Keller wrote so many letters and exercises that there is no lack of records of that sort. <a href="chapter-3-3.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The difficulties which Miss Sullivan found in 1891 are, in a measure, the difficulties which show in Miss Keller’s speech today. <a href="chapter-3-4.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>In this paper Miss Sullivan says: “During this winter (1891⁠–⁠92) I went with her into the yard while a light snow was falling, and let her feel the falling flakes. She appeared to enjoy it very much indeed. As we went in she repeated these words, ‘Out of the cloud-folds of his garments Winter shakes the snow.’ I inquired of her where she had read this; she did not remember having read it, did not seem to know that she had learned it. As I had never heard it, I inquired of several of my friends if they recalled the words; no one seemed to remember it. The teachers at the Institution expressed the opinion that the description did not appear in any book in raised print in that library; but one lady, Miss Marrett, took upon herself the task of examining books of poems in ordinary type, and was rewarded by finding the following lines in one of Longfellow’s minor poems, entitled ‘Snowflakes’:</p>
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i1">‘Out of the bosom of the air,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Out of the cloud-folds of her garments shaken,</span>
							<br/>
							<span class="i1">Over the woodlands brown and bare,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Over the harvest-fields forsaken,</span>
							<br/>
							<span class="i2">Silent, and soft, and slow</span>
							<br/>
							<span class="i2">Descends the snow.’</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>“It would seem that Helen had learned and treasured the memory of this expression of the poet, and this morning in the snow-storm had found its application.” <a href="chapter-3-5.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The entire letter is published on <abbr>pp.</abbr> 245 and 246 of the Report of the Perkins Institution for 1891. <a href="chapter-3-5.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>From <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Birdie and His Fairy Friends</i>, by Margaret <abbr class="name">T.</abbr> Canby. <a href="chapter-3-5.xhtml#noteref-11" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This letter was enclosed in another written in French, dated <time datetime="1890-02-01"><i xml:lang="fr">Le 1 fevrier 1890</i></time>. <a href="chapter-3-5.xhtml#noteref-12" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>From <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Birdie and His Fairy Friends</i>. <a href="chapter-3-5.xhtml#noteref-13" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-14" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This note is a statement of the bare facts and an apology, which <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Anagnos inserted in his report of the Perkins Institute. <a href="chapter-3-5.xhtml#noteref-14" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
